Riverside City College
Fall Semester 2024

CIS-30A:
Introduction to Python Programming - Section 49386

In this class, students are taught to combine features of Python that are suitable for program development. 
Practical applications of Python may be found in the prominent fields of many different sciences field. 
Introduces the beginner or curious programmer to Python and basic programming concepts through a series of 
practical hands-on exercises following concept lectures and discussions. Provides an overview of the history 
and use of Python in scripting, web and software development, and security. Emphasizes principles of software 
development, style, and testing. Focuses on programming and problem solving using Python programming language. 

48 hours lecture and 27 hours lab. (Letter grade only) Transfers to both UC/CSU

Course Objectives:
Upon successful completion of the course, students should be able to demonstrate the following
activities:
1. Apply common built-in Python language functions to solve problems.
2. Utilize built-in Python language tools to debug applications.
3. Utilize the interactive Python environment to define and debug Python functions.
4. Design and invoke Python program modules.
5. Develop modular Python applications that adhere to required specifications for functional
components of a larger collaborative programming project.
6. Solve programming problems by using common built-in Python language functions
and built-in Python language debugging tools.
  o Critical Thinking
  o Communication Skills
  o Information Competency & Technology Literacy


"I would like to give a special shoutout to Professor Oyenbhen Omotese. I am truly grateful for your patience 
and the thoughtfulness of your detailed syllabus. Each week, your assignments and guidance pushed us to improve 
and grow, ensuring we were always moving forward. You not only provided us with the necessary tools to succeed 
but also created an environment that fostered growth and self-confidence. Your dedication to our success has been 
evident throughout the course, and I feel incredibly fortunate to have learned under your guidance. Thank you so 
much for all your hard work and for setting us up for future success! Much gratitude"

- Munnir
